# Trouble in the sun

Blood-red spines run the length of this frightening creature, which resembles a lobster in the front and an eel in the back.
Reefclaw 	CR 1

XP 400

CN Small aberration (aquatic)

Init +5; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision; Perception +6
DEFENSE

AC 14, touch 12, flat-footed 13 (+1 Dex, +2 natural, +1 size)

hp 13 (2d8+4)

Fort +2, Ref +1, Will +4 

Defensive Abilites ferocity; Resist cold 5
OFFENSE

Speed 5 ft., swim 40 ft.
Melee 2 claws +2 (1d4 plus grab and poison)
Special Attacks death frenzy, constrict (1d4)
STATISTICS

Str 10, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 13

Base Atk +1; CMB +0 (+8 grapple); CMD 11 (can't be tripped)

Feats Improved Initiative

Skills Perception +6, Swim +8

Languages Common (can't speak)

SQ amphibious
SPECIAL ABILITIES

Death Frenzy (Su) When a reefclaw is killed, its body spasms horrifically. Immediately upon dying, the reefclaw makes a full attack against a creature it threatens. If more than one creature is within reach, roll randomly for each attack to determine the target (which may be another reefclaw).

Grab (Ex) A reefclaw can use its grab ability on a target of any size. Reefclaws have a +8 racial bonus on grapple checks; this bonus replaces the normal +4 bonus a creature with grab receives.

Poison (Ex) Claw-injury; save Fort DC 13; frequency 1/round for 4 rounds; effect 1d2 Str; cure 1 save. The save DC is Constitution-based.
ECOLOGY

Environment any water (coastal)

Organization solitary, school (2-5), or harem (6-11)

Treasure none

Reefclaws are vicious predators. They possess greater intelligence than animals, but rely mainly on their strength and instincts to survive. They hunt fish, giant crabs, dolphins, and even land-dwelling creatures that come within a hundred paces of the water.

In populated areas, reefclaws prey on beachcombers, divers, and fishermen, sometimes abandoning their usual solitary nature and coordinating attacks with other reefclaws. The creatures must be wary, however, because in some regions, these abominations find their way to the dinner plate. Brave fishermen troll bays and coastlines infested with reefclaws, baiting the creatures with fresh meat and then harvesting their powerful claws with axes.

Reefclaws cannot speak, but the creatures understand the languages used by humanoids near their hunting grounds. They use this knowledge in order to avoid fishermen and coordinate attacks. Reefclaws keep no treasure, instead savoring the taste of flesh and crunch of bone and shell as much as a miser covets his gold.

A typical reefclaw reaches approximately 3-1/2 feet long at adulthood and weighs 70 pounds. Females gather to breed once every 2 to 3 years, engaging in a predatory hunt for a male and leaving him shredded to pieces.
